Verde, the letterforms
======================

These are the source files of the letterforms I have drawn for use in a
brand identity work I took part in a while back. You can build an
OpenType binary with those files, though it probably won't be a very
useful font. Still, you may want to look into the curves, or use the
files otherwise.


Requirements
------------

You will need [Type 1 Utilities](http://lcdf.org/type/#t1utils) and
[Adobe FDK](http://adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/) to build the font
binary.

If you plan to make changes to the source file, you may also want to
have [LCDF Typetools](http://lcdf.org/type/#typetools) installed for its
simple lint as well as proofing utility for Type 1 font files.


Build
-----

Provided you have the required utilities installed, run `make`, and it
will do the necessary steps to produce an OpenType binary.


Editing
-------

The source file is a bare PostScript Type 1 font program, which makes it
convenient to process and version properly, but it also means that no
font editor can currently read the file directly. It has to be assembled
into a proper Type 1 font first:

    make font.pfa

Note that this is the intermediate file used to produce the target
OpenType binary as well, and that you could, in fact, edit the OpenType
file instead. Nevertheless, Type 1 is a format better suited for
modification as far as the outlines are concerned, because it can be
easily converted back and forth into a PostScript language program
without any loss of data. Type 1 format, while relatively basic, is also
mature and stable enough for any professional font software to read and
write without any difficulties.

You can open such Type 1 font in a font editor, make the necessary
edits, and overwrite it. If you're done with the changes, make sure you
disassemble it back into its PostScript language program:

    make font.ps

Running `make` at any stage will produce the target OpenType font binary
from either the PostScript source or the assembled Type 1 font file,
whichever appears to have changed last. Note, however, that any changes
made to the latter that have not been disassembled would get overwritten
if the source file were somehow modified behind the scenes. If such
conflict should ever occur, the build chain will stop short before any
potentially destructive operation on both assembly and disassembly.


Copyright
---------

This work was done by Grzegorz Rolek, 2013. Copyrights apply. Subject to
SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1; see LICENSE for details.

